A PWA is typically based
on three main components.
We have, first, a web app, okay?
And if you're here, I understand that you
know how to create a web app because that
has nothing to do with PWA specifically.
You can create the web app
with plain HTML, CSS and
JavaScript or using a build tool.
It can be React, create React,
it can be Angular, it can be Next JS,
it can be anything you want.
If it works in the browser, that's a web
app, okay, and we can still do that.
On top of that, we are going to start
working with something known as
a Web App Manifest that is
actually simple, but powerful.
And we need to understand what's
going on behind this file.
And then we're going to talk
about the service worker.
So these are like layers that we
are adding one on top of the other.
So how do you know if a URL is a PWA?
Because so far, I mentioned a couple
of PWAs that we have out there,
but how do you know if it's a PWA?
Well, some browsers will show you a hint,
okay?
But if you wanna get
the real technical answer,
the solution that we have
right now is Lighthouse.
Lighthouse, it's actually an open source
tool maintained by the Chrome team.
It's available as a CLI,
so it's available on NPM.
If you have Node JS installed,
you can actually run Lighthouse from the
command line interface or within DevTools.
So you go to Chrome or Edge DevTools and
there is a Lighthouse tab there.
So you can actually use
Lighthouse from there and
it will test your website against
something known as a PWA criteria.
So there is a criteria that will tell
you if a website is or not a PWA.
But remember that I mentioned
that we don't have a clear
written in stone definition for PWA.
Well, but each browser has a criteria, so
when you are passing that criteria
you will get installation support and
if you're not passing the criteria you
will have probably less abilities.
So the criteria may change with time,
in fact,
in the past five years it has
changed a couple of times.
If you pass the criteria, so if your PWA,
if your content passes the criteria,
it's officially a PWA.
Installation will be possible.
A hint for the user may appear,
such as the one we saw on Android or
the little install badge that we
have in the Omnibox in Chrome,
the Omnibox is the URL bar.
And also in the future, this is not
available today, in the future, maybe SEO
and discoverability may be different
when you're passing the criteria.
Such just maybe Google can actually render
a little icon when
a search result is a PWA.
Again, this is not happening right now.
And when you pass the criteria
your content can get out
of the browser's UI, so
you can actually be an app.